Whenever:
• A player gains control of a live ball on the playing court,
• On a throw-in, the ball touches or is legally touched by any player
on the playing court and the team of that player taking the throw-in
remains in control of the ball,
That team must attempt a shot for a field goal within 24 seconds.

Prior to the commencement of the game,
referees are encouraged to check all
equipment and, in particular, the shot
clock and associated equipment if there
are any.
In general, it is the responsibility of the
Trail to call shot clock violations. The
Trail should be mindful of the shot clock,
especially when it counts down below
10 seconds, meaning the team in control
of the ball is likely to shoot the ball very
quickly.
Of course, there are some countries
where local rules apply to shot clocks
and whether they are even used at
all. Referees should adapt to the local
playing rules.
For countries that enforce the shot clock
rule (but there is no shot clock available
for that court), the most practical
solution would be that the referee who
is in front of the scoreboard (generally
the Trail ) should count and announce
clearly by using his voice when there
are only 10 seconds left to release the
ball for a shot. He shall shout “ten”
so that all the players and coaches
can hear him and then count down
the remainder of the shot clock period
with one of his hands. If a shot is not
attempted when the referee gets to 0,
a violation should be called.

D40 - The signal sounds when the
ball is in the air, the ball does not
touch the ring and an offensive
player gets the ball = SHOT CLOCK
VIOLATION, THE REFEREE SHALL
BLOW HIS WHISTLE.
D41 - The signal sounds when the
ball is in the air and then the ball
enters the basket = GOAL MADE,
NO CALL.
D42 - The signal sounds when the
ball is in the air, the ball touches
the ring but does not enter the
basket = NO CALL. 
D43 - The signals sounds when
the ball is in the air, the ball
does not touch the ring and
the defensive player gains
immediately and clearly the
control of the ball =
NO CALL. 